# Recurring processes

- [Recurring processes](#recurring-processes)
  - [Every two weeks](#every-two-weeks)
    - [Planning](#planning)
      - [FAQ](#faq)
    - [Retrospective](#retrospective)
  - [Weekly](#weekly)
    - [Company meeting](#company-meeting)
    - [Weekly Distribution team sync](#weekly-distribution-team-sync)
  - [Daily updates](#daily-updates)
    - [Slack update](#slack-update)

## Every two weeks

At the beginning of each cycle, [we determine what work we plan to do](#planning) to bring us closer to accomplishing our goals. We run a [retrospective meeting](#retrospective) at the end of each cycle to review the progress we have made over the cycle, reflect on what worked well and identify improvement areas.

### Planning

**Input:** Existing issues and new proposals in line with our goals.

**Output:**

- A [tracking issue](../tracking_issues.md) that lists all engineering items of work we plan to accomplish this cycle.
- One or more [GitHub projects](https://github.com/orgs/sourcegraph/projects?query=is%3Aopen+Distribution%3A) describing and grouping multiple related issues, into a milestone or goal.

**Process:** The [engineering manager](../roles.md#engineering-manager) drives the planning meeting, and follows these steps:

**Async proposal (1 week before the planning meeting):** We start working on a draft set of projects and their required tasks for the next cycle. The idea here is to identify a superset of issues to be prioritized for this cycle, rather than to identify the exact set of issues.

1. Kick-off async planning during our [weekly sync meeting](#weekly-distribution-team-sync).
1. Review the current [goals and milestones](../../direction/enablement/distribution/index.md), ensure those goals and milestones match are up to date, and match what you think we should be working on. If this is not the case, propose a new goal.
1. Review the [open Distribution issues](https://github.com/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+archived%3Afalse+label%3Ateam%2Fdistribution+user%3Asourcegraph) and move all issues to the current cycle you think should be considered for prioritization.
   - If an issue is important but doesn't satisfy the goals, consider if the goal needs to be changed.
1. Review [technical debt](https://github.com/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+archived%3Afalse+label%3Ateam%2Fdistribution+user%3Asourcegraph+label%3Adebt), [quality of life](https://github.com/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+archived%3Afalse+label%3Ateam%2Fdistribution+user%3Asourcegraph+label%3Aquality-of-life) or [innovation issues](../../index.md#innovation-time) you would like to work on this cycle.
1. Update the [planning document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Ko1MbyO1yIr7aQsvIRAAbjdnOJ2qUQB9kTJQvcWWcOY) with your the proposed theme and tasks.

**Async planning:** The team asynchronously reviews the [proposed tasks and themes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Ko1MbyO1yIr7aQsvIRAAbjdnOJ2qUQB9kTJQvcWWcOY), adding comments and questions to help narrow it down to a feasible set of work that align with our goals and has a clear plan. This step helps the amount of time required during the planning meeting and resolve some doubts that may take longer to address.

**Planning meeting:** The team meets to review the existing plan, finalize the plan details and get the tracking issue and cycle in a ready to be started.

1. Revisit the goals. Are they still the right goals?
1. If there are any remaining uncertainties following the meeting, the owners of each theme or task should follow up before the start of the cycle.

**Backlog refinement:** The distribution team runs a backlog refinement session every two weeks to ensure that backlog is correctly prioritized for the upcoming sprint. We use the backlogs for tracking bugs, small features, and unplanned work. We donâ€™t use the backlog for tracking work that is expressly planned in our roadmap. To add an issue, tag it `team/distribution` to notify the distribution team.

**Note on pairing:** Pairing is a great way to share knowledge about the different projects that team is working on and pays dividends down the road. Teammates are encouraged to spend time on each cycle pairing with someone on all projects that you are _not_ working on. You are also encouraged to take own fewer tasks in order to accommodate this. As a rule of thumb estimate around **2 hours** for pairing and remember that people with be pairing with you as well.

**Note on agency and responsibility:**

- It is **every** Distribution teammate's responsibility to understand the team's priorities and propose the work that aligns with these priorities.
- It is the engineering manager's responsibility to ensure (1) the tracking issue is the right set of things to work on and (2) every team member is bought into the outcome of planning.

**Note to engineering managers:**

How active a role you take in planning should depend on your read of the team at the start of planning. Common pitfalls are being too passive or too dictatorial. Too passive means we aren't necessarily working on the right things. Too dictatorial means people aren't bought into what we're working on. Avoid both of these. Keep in mind that no one (including you) has a monopoly on useful knowledge and context, but also that the engineering manager exists for a reason.

#### FAQ

- [How do we add new work to an ongoing iteration?](faq.md#how-do-we-add-new-work-to-an-ongoing-iteration)

### Retrospective

At the end of each sprint, the team performs a [retrospective](../../retrospectives/index.md) following the [engineering milestone retrospectives](../../retrospectives/index.md#engineering-milestone-retrospectives) format to review our sprint and find improvement areas.

## Weekly

### Company meeting

As with everyone at Sourcegraph, we join the [weekly company meeting](../../communication/company_meeting.md) (when timezone permits, watching the recording otherwise).

### Weekly Distribution team sync

Mon @ 11am PST we hold an [internal
team sync](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1otP6F8qfm2yNOW1hjTszkkuiYF1MGp31s5ATeA76ij4/edit) via Zoom. The goal is to:

- Think about the problems we're solving by briefly going over what everyone is working on
- Revisit our [goals](../../direction/enablement/distribution/index.md) and think about how we are tracking towards them when useful (and consider if they are still the right goals)
- Identify and address any topics & issues that warrant further discussion
- Act as an opportunity / space for anyone to call out concerns, questions, etc. that they may have or suggest things we could be doing better, etc.
- Serve as a space for others outside our team that work closely with us (e.g. people working on Cloud infrastructure) to interact with us face-to-face.

The first Monday before the [20th (release day)](../releases/index.md), this meeting is used to finalize planning the next release.
The second Monday before the [20th (release day)](../releases/index.md), this meeting is used to kick-off asynchronous planning for the next release.

These meetings are recorded (posted automatically to the #distributioneers Slack channel) so that anyone whose timezone does not permit can participate after the fact.

## Daily updates

We use daily updates to ensure we have frequent communication across the team helping us keep in sync while working asynchronously, and help each other when we are blocked. Updates are asynchronous instead of face-to-face video call stand-ups because it allows collaboration across different timezones and work schedules.

### Slack update

At the start of your day (local time) distribution members are expected to post an update in Slack communicating:

1. What you have worked on since your last update
2. What you are going to be working on today
3. Anything you feel uneasy about, think is at risk of not being completed, blockers, etc.

**Example:**

> **Since last update:**
>
> - Helped \$CUSTOMER with search scaling questions, the issue is still open as im waiting for a reply
> - Made some progress on updating the regression test suite and merged the fix for the timeout, but there still some other issues with the FooBar test.
> - Merged the changes to the DNS and closed https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/issues/10418
>
> **Today:**
>
> Ill work on a PR for that nasty bug (https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/9330)
> and then re-focus on https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/issues/10419
>
> **Blockers**
>
> https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/9331 turned out much harder than I thought, it may slip this release, I could use another set of eyes on this

The goal of this update is to ensure we're discussing things as a team, asking for help when appropriate, reflecting on our progress, and giving others the opportunity to provide help and guidance.
