# Add Yourself to the Team Page

<div style="position: relative; padding-bottom: 56.25%; height: 0;"><iframe src="https://www.loom.com/embed/2db66c65566e453180078e13c55b0854" frameborder="0" webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen allowfullscreen style="position: absolute; top: 0; left: 0; width: 100%; height: 100%;"></iframe></div>

## Steps:

1. Accept GitHub's email invite to the Sourcegraph org (you should be a member of [the `Everyone` group](https://github.com/orgs/sourcegraph/teams/everyone) in Sourcegraph's GitHub organization).
1. Add yourself to the end of the [team.yml](https://github.com/sourcegraph/handbook/blob/main/data/team.yml) file by pasting the sample below and modifying it. You could consider including sites your LinkedIn, Twitter, or anything else in the links section. For pronunciation, you can record an audio file from your phone using [name-coach.com](https://www.name-coach.com/)). Feel free to include info on hobbies, work experience, family, pets, etc. in the description.
1. In the edit view, copy the example below, paste it at the end of the edit view, and make it about yourself! Look at others' bios for more examples.
1. Under "Commit changes" at the bottom of the page, replace the "Update team.yml" text with a summary of your change, e.g., Add Marie to team page.
1. Click the green "Commit changes" button. If you do not see the green "Commit Changes" button, refer to step 1. Successful changes will become visible shortly (but not immediately).
1. Consider adding yourself to the [team members locations map](../../team/locations.md).

You can find an example template below that uses all available features.

## Formatting your entry

```yaml
marie_curie:
  name: Marie Curie
  email: marie_curie@sourcegraph.com
  github: marie_curie
  pronouns: she/her
  role: Staff Scientist
  reports_to: vp_research
  location: Passy, Haute-Savoie, France 🇫🇷
  links: '[Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marie_Curie)'
  pronunciation: https://forvo.com/word/marie_curie/
  description: I am a Polish and naturalized-French physicist and chemist who conducted pioneering research on radioactivity. I was the first woman to win a Nobel Prize, the first person and the only woman to win the Nobel Prize twice, and the only person to win the Nobel Prize in two scientific fields. My husband, Pierre Curie, was a co-winner on her first Nobel Prize, making us the first ever married couple to win the Nobel Prize and launching the Curie family legacy of five Nobel Prizes. I was, in 1906, the first woman to become a professor at the University of Paris.
```

All fields except `name`, `role` and `reports_to` are optional, and you can use markdown and emojis inside all the fields except `name`, `github`, and `email`; any fields using markdown should be quoted (i.e., surrounded with single or double quotes), just like the `links` example below.

The order of fields doesn't matter. If you aren't comfortable with markdown, you can check out our [tips and tricks page](markdown-resources.md). If you receive errors during the build, check the [handbook check failures page](handbook-check-failures.md).

Indentation is also important with YAML, there should be two spaces before every line with a field. Quoting is also important, if you use a single quote inside your description you should use a double quote outside (i.e., `description: "this is Marie's bio"`, or a single quote outside if you want to use double quotes inside (i.e., `description: 'This is the "best" bio'`). If you get stuck on YAML parsing errors check in the #handbook channel and lots of people can help.

If you would like to be added to the company-wide org chart as well, see the [additional instructions below](#company-wide-org-chart).

## New managers

If you are joining as a new manager, be sure to add `manager_role_slug` to your personal entry. After adding that, check that any team members who report to you have the appropriate `reports_to` field in their entry. If you are stepping into a role that has been filled by an interim manager, you can update the existing entry rather than creating a new one. The entry would look something like this (depending on your role), but if you're unsure then ask your manager:

```yaml
director_design:
  name: Christina Forney
  role: (Interim) Director of Design
  reports_to: vp_product
  manager_role_slug: director_design
```

Remove `(Interim)` from the role title. You don't need to change the `manager_role_slug` value.

## New Product team managers

Most of our individual product team pages have org charts that are autogenerated from the [product_teams.yml](https://github.com/sourcegraph/handbook/blob/main/data/product_teams.yml) file. If you are a new product manager, product marketing manager, designer, or engineering manager joining a team, please make sure to check this file and add yourself there as well.

## Company-wide org chart

Add your personal entry, and make sure it has a `reports_to` field with the appropriate slug if you would like to appear on the [company-wide org chart](../../team/org_chart.md). To find your manager's slug, locate your manager’s entry, and use the value they have entered for `manager_role_slug`. For example, if you report to Logan Smith, their `manager_role_slug` is `foo`. So you'd add a row that looks like this:

```yaml
your_name:
  name: Your Name
  reports_to: foo
```
