# Customer Success Model

The primary purpose for Customer Success is to achieve as high customer retention as possible. The secondary purpose is to provide a foundation for expansion in the account.

This is achieved from working with the customer to ensure they get value from using Sourcegraph, in an ongoing basis.

Customer success is goal driven. Key results are defined on a quarterly basis for each account; these are defined as targets against key metrics (including adoption, usage, activities, sentiment, etc.).

This page outlines the [values](#values) and [goals](#goals) of Customer Success at Sourcegraph and [timeline](#customer-success-journey) of success for each account, and the high-level [roles & responsbilities](#roles-and-responsibilities) cross-functionally. The model itself is then defined using the following concepts:

- [Playbooks](customer-success-playbooks.md). These describe a prescriptive order of activities that should be carried out, and when.
- [Activities](customer-success-activities.md). These are descrete tasks carried out. They may be part of a playbook or just run on a cadence.
- [Deliverables/Assets/Documents](customer-success-deliverables.md). This is the content needed or generated by the activities.

## Values

Our customer success model is driven by our values.

### Customer-first

We seek to understand as much as we can about our customers: What's important to them; how they build, deliver, and support software; etc.

### Work as a team

Customer success is a team sport. The CE is accountable for the north star metric of retention, but it takes a village to provide the experience we want to offer the customer.

### High agency

In order to take proactive steps, it helps to have the time and the space to reflect and think strategically about our customers. Regular activities (such as QBRs, and account reviews) ensure everyone has time to think more deeply about Sourcegraph and the customer.

### High quality

Consistent application of best practices ensure customers get a high quality experience. This comes in the form of playbooks, alerts, and automation. Furthermore, accounts will be segmented to ensure the experience is tailored.

### Be welcoming and inclusive

Making our customers feel valued is important. This includes providing customers with updates on feedback they provide us.

### Open and transparent

Share as much as possible with the customer. Have as many details mutually agreed with the customer. The "Customer Playbook" will provide a common source of truth of how Sourcegraph is used, jointly owned and authored by Sourcegraph and the customer.

### Continuously grow

Be data driven. Reflect on what has worked historically to inform what should be done in the future. The same data that defines the metrics by which a customer's account is measured, will also be analysed to understand what good looks like, and what actions are effective at driving positive outcomes.

## Goals

### Drive adoption and usage

To get maximum value from Sourcegraph, customers should be using it as frequently as possible, and as many features as possible. Part of this is achieved by finding more use-cases for the customer, part of it is achieved through user enablement.

**Metrics**:

- DAU/MAU
- MAU/Seats
- Product usage statistics
- Size of average session
- Number of extensions used

**Playbooks**:

- [QBRs](customer-success-playbooks.md#business-review-with-customer)

**Activities**:

- [Regular customer check-ins](customer-success-activities.md#regular-customer-check-ins-regular)

### Nuture advocates and champions

Advocates both:

- act as the voice of the end-user
- drum up awareness and excitement for Sourcegraph

They are an important part in driving adoption and usage. They give us a pulse into user sentiment. Through feedback they help us tailor and improve both the experience and product.

**Metrics**:

- Number of advocates
- Number of champions

**Activities**:

- [Regular advocate/champion check-in](customer-success-activities.md#regular-customer-check-ins-regular)

### Ongoing alignment with customer value

A business case outlines the expected value Sourcegraph brings to a customer. A customer's expectations are set against this, and their argument to renew, and their appetite to expand, are achieved when they are confident Sourcegraph is in fact delivering against the promise. Customer success should ensure the business case is achievable, and achieved, updating when necessary as business conditions change.

**Playbooks**:

- [QBRs](customer-success-playbooks.md#business-review-with-customer)

**Activities**:

- [Internal account review & planning](customer-success-activities.md#internal-account-review-planning-meeting-regular)
- [Regular advocate/champion check-in](customer-success-activities.md#regular-customer-check-ins-regular)

### Maintain an in-depth knowledge of the account

There are 5 key areas that must be known and understood in order to ensure a customer sees as much value and experiences as little pain as possible with Sourcegraph. They are:

- Organisation: How is the customer organised? What development teams exist? How do they communicate? What initiatives affect these organisations, and how are they measured?
- People:
- Processes: Concrete examples for sales, as well as account health
- Tooling:
- Infrastructure:

**Activities**:

- Health Checks
- [Regular customer check-ins](customer-success-activities.md#regular-customer-check-ins-regular)

**Documents**:

- [Techincal Design Document](customer-success-deliverables.md#technical-design-document)

### Ensure effective support structure

In order to achieve the best experience the customer must understand how to engage with Sourcegraph support and the CE must ensure all comunication relevant to support tickets are funneled to support for handling. Some customers will look to provide an internal support structure for their use of Sourcegraph, funnelling day-to-day user questions. Ensuring this team are fully equiped to engage with our support is important.

**Playbooks**:

- [Account Onboarding](customer-success-playbooks.md#account-onboarding)

### Ensure effective product feedback

Customers will raise bug feature requests, and sometimes roadmap items will benefit that customer (or may have beta programs that the customer may be interested in joining). Agreeing channels for clear, consistent, and frequent updates of all requests, issues, and roadmap news, will build trust.

**Playbooks**:

- [Account Onboarding](customer-success-playbooks.md#account-onboarding)

## Customer Success Journey

### Sales Stage 5 or 6

- _AE & CE_ [**Start Account Planning**](customer-success-playbooks.md#account-planning): Build onboarding and engagement plans; get alignment with Champion and commitment to plan
- _CE & (when necessary Product & Support & Engineering)_ [**Production Planning**](customer-success-playbooks.md#production-planning): Document planned production in Technical Design Document; run Technical Review when necessary. Work with champion to agree production design and build roll-out plan and commitment from Champion to secure necessary resources.

### Contract Started

- _AE & CE & VE_ [**Book and run kickoff meeting**](customer-success-activities.md#account-kick-off-meeting-with-customer): review trial and business assessment results, share 30/60/90 day plan and ongoing engagement (Business Reviews, Training, etc.). Get commitment from all stakeholders to resource these meetings. Explain engagement model for things like support, product feedback, and training & enablement.
- _AE & CE_ **Book onboarding meetings, recurring customer meetings, recurring internal meetings**

### Customer Onboarding

- _CE_ **Run customer enablement**
- _CE_ **Oversee production rollout**

### Q2 of Contract

Tier 1 Accounts only

- _AE & CE & (optionally VE, Product, Marketing)_ [**Business Review**](customer-success-playbooks.md#business-review)

All Accounts

- _AE & CE & (optionally VE, Product, Marketing)_ [**Account Planning**](customer-success-playbooks.md#account-planning.md)
- _CE_ **Monthly nurture and enablement activities**

### Q3 of Contract

Tier 1 & 2 Accounts only

- _AE & CE & (optionally VE, Product, Marketing)_ [**Business Review**](customer-success-playbooks.md#business-review)

All Accounts

- _AE & CE & (optionally VE, Product, Marketing)_ [**Account Planning**](customer-success-playbooks.md#account-planning.md)
- _CE_ **Monthly nurture and enablement activities**

### Q4 of Contract

Tier 1 Accounts only

- _AE & CE & (optionally VE, Product, Marketing)_ [**Business Review**](customer-success-playbooks.md#business-review)

All Accounts

- _AE & CE & (optionally VE, Product, Marketing)_ [**Renewal planning**](customer-success-playbooks.md#renewal-planning.md)
- _CE_ **Monthly nurture and enablement activities**

### Contract Renewal

- _AE_ **Renews Contract**

## Roles and Responsibilities

| Activity                       | CE      | AE      | AER     | PM      | Mar     | VE      | Cust    |
| ------------------------------ | ------- | ------- | ------- | ------- | ------- | ------- | ------- |
| Account Review & Planning      | &#9745; | &#9745; |         |         |         |         |         |
| Account Onboarding             | &#9745; | &#9745; |         |         |         |         | &#9745; |
| Champion/Advocate Finding      |         | &#9745; |         |         |         |         |         |
| Champion/Advocate Nuture       | &#9745; |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Internal Technical Reviews     | &#9745; |         | &#9745; | &#9745; |         |         |         |
| Business Reviews with Customer | &#9745; | &#9745; |         |         |         | &#9745; | &#9745; |
| Renewal Process                |         | &#9745; |         |         |         |         | &#9745; |
| Health Checks                  | &#9745; |         |         |         |         |         | &#9745; |
| Events                         | &#9745; | &#9745; |         |         | &#9745; |         |         |
| Product Feedback & Roadmap     | &#9745; |         |         | &#9745; |         |         | &#9745; |
| Bug Updates                    |         |         | &#9745; |         |         |         |         |
