# Creating and maintaining license keys for customers

Sourcegraph requires site administrators to input a license key to have access to various [paid features](https://about.sourcegraph.com/pricing). This page explains how to create, use, and maintain license keys for prospects and customers.

Valid license keys can only be generated by site administrators on Sourcegraph.com.

License keys are created and managed on Sourcegraph.com in the **Site-admin > Subscriptions** page. Once a license key has been created for a user, they can sign in to Sourcegraph.com to access it from their user profile.

## How to create a license key for a renewal or upgrade

For a new trial, create a _new_ subscription. You will only use this for the trial. (Follow the instructions below from start to finish.)

When the customer converts, create a _new_ subscription; do not reuse the trial subscription. (Follow the instructions below from start to finish.) This is to ensure data accuracy for the Sales Ops team.

If an existing company or customer needs a new license key for any reason (e.g., they purchase more seats, they upgrade product tiers, or they simply renew), add a new license key to the _existing_ subscription. In that circumstnace, do not click **Create a product subscription**; find the existing subscription on that page and then once viewing it, click **Generate new license manually**.

Visit the **Site-admin > Subscriptions** page, find the existing subscription, click into it, and follow the steps below (from the "Click **Generate new license manually**" step onwards).

## How to create a license key for a new prospect or new customer

> NOTE: CEs should always consult with Sales before creating license keys for prospects (i.e., companies that have not yet officially become customers).

First, the company's Sourcegraph administrator must create a Sourcegraph.com user account and provide their username. Once that is available,follow the steps below.

1. Sign in to sourcegraph.com.
2. If the customer does not have a license yet, navigate to the [users page](https://sourcegraph.com/site-admin/users) and create new user account.
3. Create an account with the username `CompanyName-UniqueId`. Replace `CompanyName` with the company name, and use the Unique ID from the Unique Account ID field on the Account record in Salesforce.
4. Navigate to the [subscriptions page](https://sourcegraph.com/site-admin/dotcom/product/subscriptions). If the user needs a new product subscription (new prospect doing a trial, or an existing prospect purchasing a production license for the first time), click **Create product subscription**. Search for the user you just created.
5. Otherwise (renewals or expansions), just search for the user associated with the company, and click into the subscription ID (left-most column).
6. In either case, click **Generate new license manually**. Fill out the license end date, number of users, and tags. For tags, see [License Key Tags](#license-key-tags) for a list you can just copy. Tags should be separated by commas, with no spaces. You will need to include:

- `plan:enterprise-0` or `plan:team-0` for Enterprise or Teams customers, respectively.
- `true-up` to allow the company to go over the user limit on the license. No tag is needed for hard cap.
- `mau` to indicate that the company is on a monthly usage-based billing model.
- `trial` to show an indicate in Sourcegraph that the company is on a trial.
- `batch-changes` for Batch Changes (formerly `campaigns`)
- `acls` for external Permission syncing from the code host. (Add this to all licenses.)
- `private-extension-registry` to allow for a private Extension registry. All Enterprise licenses should have this added.
- `remote-extensions-allow-disallow` to allow for the admin to enable/disable remote extensions. All Enterprise licenses should have this added.
- `monitoring` - Monitoring. All licenses should have this added.
- `internal` for licenses used for internal sites (dotcom, k8s, etc.)
- `dev` for internal developer licenses
- The company's name (with dashes instead of spaces), to make it easy to search for a given license key in the future.
- Set the licensed number of users (note that if you added the `true-up` tag above, the company will be able to exceed this count, but administrators will see a warning) and the number of days that the license should be valid, and click **Generate license**.
- Finally, copy the license key, and share it with the company.

### License key tags

- **Enterprise Licenses**: `plan:enterprise-0`,`acls`,`private-extension-registry`,`remote-extensions-allow-disallow`,`monitoring`, plus the customer name, should be added to every Enterprise license. Optionally add `true-up`, `mau`, `trial`, `batch-changes` based on the context of the license.
- **Teams Licenses**: Only applicable for team license renewals. Add `plan:team-0`,`acls`,`monitoring`, plus the customer name, to all Teams licenses.

## Future state

These tags are supported but not currently saleable: - `branding`: Whether custom branding of this Sourcegraph instance has been purchased. - `backup-and-restore`: Whether builtin backup and restore on this Sourcegraph instance has been purchased.

If no `plan:*` tag is supplied, the license will be treated as legacy enterprise tier which has unlimited access to all features.

## How to delete a license key

Unfortunately, once a license key is created, it cannot be disabled or deleted.

If the company hasn't yet received or seen the license key, it's easy to hide it. Users can only ever see the latest key associated with their subscription. So just re-follow the steps above (from the "Click **Generate new license key manually**" step onwards) and they will never be able to see the previous key.

However, if a company has already accessed and copied the key, there is nothing we can do to change it. As a result, try to minimize the duration and user count on keys to only that which is actually necessary. As an example, if you want to create an "unlimited" license for a company that has 100 employees, don't create a key that allows 999,999,999 to achieve that. This minimizes any risks of the key becoming exposed. Instead, create one that is close to the actual total, as we can always create a new, larger key for them in the future.

## Viewing current license keys

All license keys can be found in a [complete list](https://sourcegraph.looker.com/looks/635) or in the individual [instance views](https://sourcegraph.looker.com/dashboards/94).

## Finding usernames

Our user search doesn't search emails—so, you may miss the user you're trying to find. If you can't find the username associated with the customer/prospect, you can run the following API query:

```
query{
  user(email:"THEIR EMAIL"){
    username
  }
}
```

That should return their username.

## Reporting an issue with the license key management system or feature gating

If you notice a problem with the license key management system, or with feature gating, please open an issue using this [issue template](https://github.com/sourcegraph/customer/issues/new?assignees=&labels=&template=gating_or_licensekey_issue.md&title=). This repository is private so you can safely share customer specific information.

This includes:

- usability issue with the key management system
- features not being gated as advertised in [pricing](https://about.sourcegraph.com/pricing/)
- user caps not being enforced

Please open one issue per occurence (per customer or prospect) so we can investigate each case, even if the same problem has been reported before.
