# 2021 Engineering Organization Plan

Defining a future vision for the organization is necessary to effectively grow the engineering team. It is understood that all plans change, and this document will be kept up to date with these changes. This is our written plan to align the team and clarify hiring and growth expectations.

[2021 headcount plan](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1UG4aLB5S8yOSOByia2EQgpZkoPxG5eVfqQqgs1f71Vw/edit#gid=2097845084)

## Product engineering team

This organization is responsible for building products that deliver value to our customers and drive business growth. Each product engineering team has the autonomy and the necessary cross-functional skills (for example: frontend engineers, backend engineers, site reliability engineers, product manager, designer) to achieve their mission.

Product engineering teams leverage our internal development platform provided by the platform engineering team to increase their engineering velocity and quality over time. When there is an opportunity for improvement in our internal development platform, product engineering teams are accountable for delivering this feedback to the platform engineering team and collaborating with them to come up with an execution plan that unblocks the product engineering team.

Forecasted teams:

- [Search Core](search/index.md#search-core) (future split of current Search team)
- [Search Growth](search/index.md#search-growth) (future split of current Search team)
- [Campaigns](campaigns/index.md)
- [Code Intelligence](code-intelligence/index.md)
- [Code Insights](web/index.md#code-insights) (future team, currently owned by Web team)
- [Extensions and Integrations](web/index.md#extensions-and-integrations) (future team, currently owned by Web team)

## Platform engineering team

This organization is responsible for:

1. Enabling product engineering teams to increase their engineering velocity and quality over time (by investing in libraries, tooling, and infrastructure).
1. Owning high level operational concerns of Sourcegraph Cloud (for example: uptime, security). The operational concerns of specific parts of our product are owned by the respective product engineering teams.
1. Owning customer facing work that is closely coupled with our development platform and isn't clearly owned by a single product engineering team (for example: how Sourcegraph is deployed/upgraded, complete site redesign).

Each platform engineering team contains the necessary cross-functional skills (for example: frontend engineers, backend engineers, site reliability engineers, product manager, designer) to achieve their mission.

Forecasted teams:

- [Backend platform](cloud/index.md) (currently the Cloud team)
- [Web platform](web/index.md#web-platform) (future team, currently owned by Web team)
- [Operations platform](distribution/index.md#operations-platform) (currently owned by Distribution team)
- [Distribution](distribution/index.md)
- [Security](security/index.md)
