# Implementation Project Manager (TPM)

The Implementation Project Management (TPM) team at Sourcegraph assists customers and internal teams to deploy, install, and configure Sourcegraph within customer environments in a timely and sustainable manner. TPMs work closely with IEs, CEs, and Sales to collect implementation requirements, define project tasks, track the execution of those tasks according to the timelines, and report on the overall status of the implementation.

TPMs primarily focus on large Strategic customers with complex, multi-node, and often Kubernetes-based deployments utilizing a jointly deployed instance. As the CE and AE are finalizing the Production design for the customer, the TPM will be introduced to the customer to create an implementation project plan based on the customer's expectations, needs, and dependencies. From there, the TPM will monitor the project's progress according to the plan, ensure team members are free of project blockers, pull in additional resources as needed, and report overall progress to both internal and external stakeholders. As implementations come to a close, TPMs will ensure a seamless transition of customer ownership from the implementation team to the post-live support team.

Throughout these implementations, the TPM will be responsible for collecting and documenting lessons learned and utilizing those lessons to inform product decisions and customer-lifecycle best practices. TPMs and IEs will work collaboratively to continuously and iteratively improve on existing processes based on experiences, customer feedback, and evolving products.
