# Creating and maintaining license keys for customers

Sourcegraph requires site administrators to input a license key to have access to various [paid features](https://about.sourcegraph.com/pricing). This page explains how to create, use, and maintain license keys for customers.

## How to create a license key for a new customers

Valid license keys can only be generated by site administrators on Sourcegraph.com.

License keys are created and managed on Sourcegraph.com in the **Site-admin > Subscriptions** page. Once a license key has been created for a user, they can sign in to Sourcegraph.com to access it from their user profile.

To create a license key:

First, the customer's Sourcegraph administrator must create a Sourcegraph.com user account and provide their username.

- Sign in to Sourcegraph.com and visit the **Site-admin > Subscriptions** page and click **Create product subscription**.
- Find the username and click the **Create product subscription** button.
- Click **Generate new license manually**.
- Add the appropriate tags to the input box (separated by commas, with no spaces). Commonly used tags include:
  - `true-up` to allow the customer to go over the user limit on the license.
  - `mau` to indicate that the customer is on a monthly usage-based billing model.
  - `trial` to show an indicate in Sourcegraph that the customer is on a trial.
  - `enterprise-plus` or `elite` to indicate that the customer is on a product tier above Enterprise (which is the default).
  - And the customer's name (with dashes instead of spaces), to make it easy to search for a given license key in the future.
- Set the licensed number of users (note that if you added the `true-up` tag above, the customer will be able to exceed this count, but site administrators will see a warning) and the number of days that the license should be valid, and click **Generate license**.
- Finally, click on the **View as user** link, and share the resulting URL with the customer.

A typical email to send to a customer is:

>Hi,
>I just created a new license key for you that you can find at ___! Just click **Reveal license key**, copy the key, and then save it to your Sourcegraph's site configuration in the `licenseKey` field.

## How to create a license key for a renewal or upgrade

If an existing customer needs a new license key for any reason (e.g., they purchase more seats, they upgrade product tiers, or they simply renew), you can add a new license key to an existing subscription.

Just visit the **Site-admin > Subscriptions** page, find the existing subscription, click into it, and follow the steps above (from the "Click **Generate new license manually**" step onwards).

## Deleting a license key

Unfortunately, once a license key is created, it will be valid to use until it expires.

If a customer has already accessed and copied the key, there is nothing we can do. As a result, try to minimize the duration and user count on keys to only that which is actually necessary. As an example, if you want to create an "unlimited" license for a company that has 100 employees, don't create a key that allows 999,999,999 to achieve that. This minimizes any risks of the key becoming exposed. Instead, create one that is close to the acutal total, as we can always [create a new, larger key](#how-to-create-a-license-key-for-a-renewal-or-upgrade) for them in the future.

However, if you make a mistake while creating a key, and haven't yet sent it to the user, it's easy to hide it. Users can only ever see the latest key on their subscription. So just re-follow the steps above (from the "Click **Generate new license key manually**" step onwards) and they will never be able to see the incorrect key.

## Viewing current license keys

All license keys can be found in a [complete list](https://sourcegraph.looker.com/looks/635) or in the individual [instance views](https://sourcegraph.looker.com/dashboards/94).
