# Creating a managed instance

Creating a new [managed instance](./index.md) involves following the steps below.
For basic operations like accessing an instance for these steps, see [managed instances operations](../operations.md) what if there is some text here.

1. CE creates an issue with the managed instance template in the `sourcegraph/customer` repository.
1. Clone and `cd deploy-sourcegraph-managed/`
1. Prepare your environment:

   - `export MG_DEPLOY_SOURCEGRAPH_MANAGED_PATH=$(pwd)`
   - `export VERSION=v<MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH>`
   - `export COMPANY=$COMPANY`
   - `export PROJECT_PREFIX=sourcegraph-managed` (should match GCP project prefix)
   - `export PROJECT_ID=$PROJECT_PREFIX-$COMPANY`
   - `export PROJECT_SLUG=<prefix>.sourcegraph.com` (the customer issue mentions it)
   - `export TF_VAR_opsgenie_webhook=<OpsGenie Webhook value>`
     - This can be found in the [Managed Instances vault](https://my.1password.com/vaults/nwbckdjmg4p7y4ntestrtopkuu/allitems/d64bhllfw4wyybqnd4c3wvca2m)

1. Check out a new branch: `git checkout -b $COMPANY/create-instance`
1. Create a new GCP project for the instance by:

- Adding it to the [`managed_projects` tfvar in `gcp/projects/terraform.tfvars`](https://github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph-managed/blob/main/gcp/projects/terraform.tfvars)
- Apply terraform in `gcp/projects` folder - due to the amount of service APIs that are defined in this project, run Terraform with increased parallelism to prevent waiting a long time for the plan to form:
  `terraform apply -parallelism=100`

1. Ensure the target version of docker-compose file is in the golden directory, it should be named `docker-compose.x.y.z.yaml`
1. ` ./util/create-managed-instance-new.sh $COMPANY` and **commit the result**. Make sure that the version exists in [deploy-sourcegraph-docker](https://github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph-docker/tags).
1. Replace base `docker-compose.yaml` to use golden symlink: `cd $COMPANY/red/docker-compose && rm docker-compose.yaml && ln -s ../../../golden/docker-compose.<MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH>.yaml docker-compose.yaml && rm ../VERSION && cd ../../`
1. Open and edit `terraform.tfvars` according to the TODO comments within and commit the result.

   > NOTE: ⚠️ Do not set `enable_alerting` to `true` yet as this will cause false alerts to fire until the MI creation process has been completed!

1. Open and edit `deploy-sourcegraph-managed/$COMPANY/red/docker-compose/docker-compose.override.yaml`, increase `gitserver-0`'s `cpus: 8` if the instance size is larger than "n2-standard-8".
1. In `deploy-sourcegraph-managed/$COMPANY` run `terraform init && terraform apply`
1. Check if all is running

   ```bash
   mg check
   ```

1. In the `$COMPANY` directory run `terraform fmt` and commit any changes

1. In the `$COMPANY` GCP project, create [Google Oauth credentials](https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/credentials?project=sourcegraph-managed-$COMPANY) with the following parameters:

   - type: Web Application
   - name: `managed-instance-$COMPANY`
   - Authorized redirect URIs:
     - Is the instance **public**, then add **only** `https://$PROJECT_SLUG/.auth/callback`
     - Is the instance **private**, then add **both** `https://$PROJECT_SLUG/.auth/callback` AND `http://localhost/.auth/callback`

1. Create a GCS secret to be used by OIDC authentication

   ```bash
   mg create-oidc-secret --client-id=<CLIENT_ID_FROM_OAUTH_CREDENTIALS> --client-secret=<CLIENT_SECRET_FROM_OAUTH_CREDENTIALS>
   ```

1. Initialize the instance and copy the password reset link that is generated by running

   > NOTE: if requested in the new MI request issue, add the CE email in `config.yaml`:
   >
   > ```
   > additionalAdmins:
   > - CE_NAME@sourcegraph.com
   > ```

   ```bash
   mg init-instance $CUSTOMER_ADMIN_EMAIL
   ```

1. Go back to `terraform.tfvars` and set `enable_alerting` to `true`. Run `terraform apply` and verify that only `google_monitoring_alert_policy.primary` is created.
1. Commit all changes
1. Enable metrics collection and GCP alerts for the new instance:

   - cd `monitoring`
   - run `terraform apply`

1. Enable executors, [learn more](./mi1-1_enable_executors_process.md).

1. Commit the last changes, create a PR for review, apply and merge

1. Enable security audit logging via `terraform apply` in [infrastructure repository](https://github.com/sourcegraph/infrastructure/tree/main/security/auto-discovery) - this will create required resources dynamically, based on project label.
1. Add an entry for the customer by adding their [accounts](https://github.com/sourcegraph/accounts/) link to the checklist in the [managed instances upgrade issue template](../../../engineering/dev/process/releases/upgrade_managed_issue_template.md).

## Wraping up

Follow the [post-creation task](#post-creation-tasks) below.

## Post-creation tasks

### Giving customer access

> NOTE: ⚠️ Before providing access to the customer, make sure that the GCP alerting policy has been created!

#cloud usually hands off to CE at this point, they will schedule a call with the customer (including a DevOps team member, if needed) to walk the site admin on the customer's side through performing initial setup of the product including adding the license key, adding repos, configuring SSO, and inviting users. Please notify the CE requested the instance has been created with the following message.

```
Hi,

The instance is ready. Would you kindly add 10 extra seats to the license so we can have a few extra seats for Sourcegraph management access?

Here's the link to the password reset link <>. Please note the link will expire after 24 hours
```

If the link expires before the customer was able to sign up, you can generate a new link with

```bash
mg reset-customer-password --email <customer admin email>
```

### Enable "private" mode

Some customers opt to restrict access to Sourcegraph instance to a limitied number of IP ranges (e.g. corporate VPN). Ensure CE has provided the customer IP allowlist. This is a prereq in the instance creation form.

- Set `type=private` in `$CUSTOMER/config.yaml`
- Set `public=false` in `$CUSTOMER/terraform.tfvars`
- Add `allowed_customer_ip_ranges=["1.2.3.4/32"]` in `$CUSTOMER/terraform.tfvars`
- Run `terraform apply`

### Is customers using a private code host?

If the customers' code host is behind a firewall, we will need to provide them the IP of our Cloud NAT

```sh
cd $CUSTOMER
terraform output
```

Provide the value of `cloud_nat_ips` to CE or customers, and instruct them to allow incoming traffic from referenced IP addresses.

## Troubleshooting

### `KeyRing` already exists

```
│ Error: Error creating KeyRing: googleapi: Error 409: KeyRing projects/sourcegraph-managed-$CUSTOMER/locations/global/keyRings/primary-key-ring already exists.
```

You may be trying to re-create an instance in the same project where KMS is only scheduled for deletion instead of being deleted right away. You will need to manuall import below resources

```sh
terraform import 'module.managed_instance.google_kms_key_ring.keyring' projects/sourcegraph-managed-$COMPANY/locations/global/keyRings/primary-key-ring
terraform import 'module.managed_instance.google_kms_crypto_key.key' global/primary-key-ring/primary-key
```

### `Error creating Brand: googleapi: Error 409: Requested entity already exists`

You may be trying to re-create an instance in an existing project. Simply import the resource.

```sh
terraform import module.managed_instance.google_iap_brand.project_brand $(gcloud alpha iap oauth-brands list --project $PROJECT_ID --format json | jq -r '.[0].name')
```
