# Working hours

- At Sourcegraph, results matter more than the hours that you put in. We expect our teammates to apply personal agency over how many hours they can stay focused or are needed to achieve the results they want to achieve, and regulate their rest as they see fit.
- We trust that when teammates exercise high agency they will also exercise high empathy and be considerate of their fellow teammates when establishing work schedules and when preparing to take time off. Communication and coordination are key, especially for larger projects and customer facing roles– our Support team has documented how they put this into practice [here](../support/support-schedule.md).
- It’s up to you to identify the right hours to work, considering your type of work and the teammates you work with across other timezones. Consult your manager if you need guidance, and set your availability in your calendar accordingly. If you are invited to meetings outside of your working hours it’s okay to ask to reschedule, or to decline and catch up afterwards by watching the recording and reading the agenda.
- If you’ve worked excessively for a short period and with valid reason, think about how you can restore balance and get guidance from your manager if necessary. This may look like shortening your hours in the next few days, or taking some extra paid time off. If you’re working excessively over long periods of time, something is wrong and it’s up to you to raise this with your manager. We don’t celebrate or reward long hours - we celebrate great work produced sustainably, by teammates who take care of themselves.
- Some teammates prefer to work in a really flexible way, which can sometimes mean that they’re online in unusual hours or days. Others prefer a set schedule. Both are valid options. Moreover, due to our global team one person’s weekend can be someone else’s weekday. There is no expectation that teammates will be responsive over their weekend, in the evenings or while on vacation, unless it’s been agreed with the appropriate notice, e.g., on-call duty.
- Tip: [Configure](../product-engineering/engineering/github-notifications/index.md#custom-routing) GitHub notifications to send Sourcegraph related ones to your work email. After that it is just a matter of not checking your work email (or Slack) at times that you don’t want to do work. Slack has settings to pause notifications, and you can remove work email from your phone if that would help you not check it during non-work times.

When you’ve decided how to take your paid time off, capture the paid time off in Roots and select the appropriate category. This will update your availability in Slack and Google Calendar. Please update your availability across all other channels including Google Mail and let any relevant stakeholders know you won’t be available. We want to capture your time off in Roots so we can stay compliant with countries where we’re required to track paid time off, but more importantly, so we can measure if our paid time off offering is effective at the company level and across all teams and departments.

Questions and/or unusual situations can be directed to the People Ops team, either via email (people-ops@sourcegraph.com) or Slack (#people-ops), who are happy to provide guidance!
