# FY21-Q2 OKRs

> NOTE: We've changed [how we set goals](index.md) since we wrote these OKRs.

> These OKRs are for Q2 in [fiscal year 2021](../../communication/index.md#fiscal-year), which runs from 2020-05-01 to 2020-07-31.

1. **CEO: Scale up pipeline and ARR.** \
   KR: Q3 and Q4 new and expansion pipelines ahead of plan. \
   KR: Marketing, Product, Sales, and Customer Engineering aligned on strategy, execution, and metrics => In progress, wrote up [Sales personas, new paths to winning deals, etc.](https://drive.google.com/a/sourcegraph.com/open?id=1I72rKXmVzQIYsOS6MOz2yCYnh5qGWI1Y-9-EkTycytk) \
   KR: Street capacity ahead of plan. => AEs ramping ahead of plan. \
   KR: Clear value prop for buyer (not just users).
   1. **Marketing: More professional developers will know about and try Sourcegraph** \
      KR: Get mentioned/linked by influential developers and on high-quality developer communities by being compelling [Certain Twitter accounts and sites, incl. Hacker News, /r/programming, Lobsters, etc., would meet this criteria] \
      KR: [_N<sub>6</sub>_][n6] WAU of Sourcegraph Cloud \
      KR: Reach pipeline coverage of at least 5x Q3 new IARR by the end of Q2 (relative to “Company plan”).
   1. **Marketing: More professional developers will love Sourcegraph** \
      KR: ZZZ developer testimonials about Sourcegraph \
      KR: XXX Influential users/customers getting on podcasts/youtube video with us \
      KR: At least 3 influential thought leaders or engineering blogs (criteria TBD) will post about us. Examples are the Netflix endorsement of Couchbase.
   1. **Customer Engineering: Build a team and pipeline to achieve the company sales plan.** \
      KR: Reach pipeline coverage of at least 1.5x Q3 + Q4 expansion IARR by the end of Q2 (relative to [“Company plan”](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1EkZ7O69-2jbgtacoFDrY8L6rP73Hlqp_syyVCnmGAFA/edit#gid=498016854)). => [Q3 expansion IARR full pipeline](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1MFOklNb1vmnNnAnL_pqAuIGaOv5WY0AHyshOuhg0rLY/edit#slide=id.g76e3e6314e_4_0) has 2.0x coverage. \
      KR: Reach [_$N<sub>0</sub>_][n0] in expansion IARR (“Company plan”). ([“Company plan” for Q2 expansion, Targets sheet =E4+F4+G4](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1EkZ7O69-2jbgtacoFDrY8L6rP73Hlqp_syyVCnmGAFA/edit#gid=498016854)). => Reached. \
      KR: Hire +2 CEs (per hiring plan), and up to 5 if hiring targets are expanded. => Hired +1 CE so far.
   1. **Sales: Create clear paths to value/purchase for non-development teams (such as CISO and Digital Transformation).** \
      KR: Move [_existing such deals_](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1fAB7HMD7rmcyI68f2WuMAvt3uf0UqIruFvKhJUHMCyY/edit#bookmark=id.6awzhy8xk6lh) to Contract Negotiation or Closed Won. \
      KR: Generate and move through the pipeline an additional [_N<sub>1</sub>_][n1] potential such deals (minimum total IARR: [_N<sub>2</sub>_][n2]), which moves through to the Evaluation stage within two weeks of first meeting.
      1. **Product: Surface value metrics and [code insights](https://drive.google.com/a/sourcegraph.com/open?id=1EHzor6I1GhVVIpl70mH-c10b1tNEl_p1xRMJ9qHQfoc) for engineering leaders.** \
         KR: Sales uses prototypes or design mocks in 10+ demo calls. \
         KR: Compile list of top 10 questions engineering leaders have about their organization’s code. \
         KR: Code insights feature is validated and included with deals in Q3 pipeline with [_$N<sub>3</sub>_][n3] weighted IARR.
   1. **Product: Deliver on projects to increase and support sales efforts.** \
      KR: Users can search across contexts of their organization's code as outlined in [RFC 136](https://drive.google.com/a/sourcegraph.com/open?id=1-Hn3bSVmwZ9iY0nfztXMoDfzWMdOHYTKrhK2F5ZJZI8). => [v0 released in 3.16](https://about.sourcegraph.com/blog/sourcegraph-3.16#introducing-version-contexts-to-search-past-releases) \
      KR: Non-Git version control can be set up in the site admin area. \
      KR: License keys enable features for each license tier. \
      KR: [_N<sub>4</sub>_][n4] new trials begin in Q2 using self-service trial start flow from Sourcegraph.com
      1. **Engineering (Distribution): Site admins can painlessly deploy, upgrade, and maintain Sourcegraph.** \
         KR: Reporting an issue with all the information needed by Sourcegraph requires no more than 5 minutes of customer time (i.e., no back-and-forth). \
         KR: Upgrades take less than 30 minutes.
   1. **Sales: Expand the team and playbook to achieve the company sales plan.** \
      KR: Hire 1 more SDR and 3 AEs (at least 2 Enterprise AEs). => Hired +1 SDR and +2 AEs so far. \
      KR: Reach pipeline coverage of at least 5x Q3 new IARR by the end of Q2 (Evaluation and Contract Negotiation stages only). \
      KR: Business value/prop provided to every prospect in Evaluation stage. \
      KR: Reach [_$N<sub>5</sub>_][n5] in new IARR (["Company plan" for Q2 new, Targets sheet =E3+F3+G3](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1EkZ7O69-2jbgtacoFDrY8L6rP73Hlqp_syyVCnmGAFA/edit#gid=1071026049)). => Reached. \
      KR: Attribute pipeline and deal dollars to new outbound/SDR initiatives.
1. **CEO: Kick off long-term projects to massively grow awareness and usage.**
   1. **Marketing: Take big risks to massively increase awareness.** \
      KR: Hire a [Developer Televangelist](https://docs.google.com/document/d/10JHQ4vX94jGiWqxRIFRyEliUf8o_Jq4HBhHqsueS5Kk/edit) (aka online developer advocate). \
      KR: Ramp up to **almost daily** live events including partners, customers, and more. \
      KR: >100 user tweets.
   1. **Product: Deliver on projects to grow awareness and usage.** \
      KR: [Sourcegraph.com WAU](https://sourcegraph.looker.com/looks/521) grows by 5x to [_N<sub>6</sub>_][n6] WAU. \
      KR: MQLs from Sourcegraph.com contribute [_$N<sub>7</sub>_][n7] weighted pipeline (closing in Q3 and earlier). \
      KR: ≥[_N<sub>8</sub>_][n8] WAU of LSIF [code intelligence actions](https://sourcegraph.looker.com/explore/sourcegraph_events/code_intel_events?qid=7iKSbu85XgC64zGMkFuvZY&origin_space=128&toggle=vis) across self-hosted instances and Sourcegraph.com. \
      KR: ≥[_N<sub>9</sub>_][n9] WAU total for [code host integrations](https://sourcegraph.looker.com/explore/sourcegraph_events/server_weekly_usage?qid=168XAjjRvou3zkSc2gvpeK&origin_space=129&toggle=vis) at customers, and ≥[_N<sub>10</sub>_][n10] WAU each for public code hosts (GitLab.com, GitHub.com) \
      KR: ≥[_N<sub>11</sub>_][n11] organizations have [created campaigns](https://sourcegraph.looker.com/dashboards/136), and at each of those organizations they have merged ≥[_N<sub>12</sub>_][n12] campaign changesets
   1. **Product: Scale product team to achieve product growth.** \
      KR: Hire 2 Product Managers. => Hired 1.\
      KR: Hire 2 Designers. => Hired 3.
   1. **Business Operations: Ensure Sourcegraph decisions are data-driven.** \
      KR: All key metrics for, and determined by, marketing, sales, and customer engineering, are measured, easily accessed, and used in weekly meetings. \
      KR: 50%+ of product and marketing prioritization and resource allocation decisions (at the RFC and new program levels) are supported by [growth frameworks and models](https://docs.google.com/document/d/10-sq4iZrA_wSlYA2S19UDmHwkWldJfS_wf-hEX3Phgw/edit#).
   1. **CTO: Reduce time to market for new features by helping engineering teams identify the MVP and providing high-fidelity feedback.** \
      KR: Identify 3 engineering efforts to assist, validated by anonymous survey at the end of each iteration that will measure whether assistance was valuable.
   1. **CTO: Create a trusted authority that is a source of engaging content for a broad developer audience (with emphasis on dev tools and productivity).** \
      KR: [_N<sub>13</sub>_][n13] interested inquiries (professional dev, employed by a company with 200+ developers) generated from this new content.
1. **CEO: Effective team communication and growth.** \
   KR: Handbook-first; 75% of team members make a handbook edit weekly, 100% make a handbook edit monthly. => As of 2020-07-07: 17 team members (43%) edited in the last week, and 33 team members (~83%) edited in the last month. \
   KR: Meet hiring plan. \
   KR: The [plan](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1EkZ7O69-2jbgtacoFDrY8L6rP73Hlqp_syyVCnmGAFA/edit#gid=498016854) for sales, marketing, hiring, and costs is used by the exec team and is up to date.
   1. **Product: Maintain updated and useful product vision and roadmap.** \
      KR: Everyone at Sourcegraph knows where to find the product roadmap and trusts it is up to date. \
      KR: The roadmap is public and easily discoverable. \
      KR: End of quarter survey proves engineers at Sourcegraph know why their work is important and how it ties to the company strategy and OKRs.
   1. **Engineering: Organize and grow engineering team to support product initiatives.** \
      KR: Hire engineers: +1 code intel, +2 frontend, +1 security, +2 backend. => +2 security \
      KR: Hire engineering managers: +2. => Hired +2.
   1. **VP Engineering: Raise the quality bar of our application and product.** \
      KR: Define and measure KPIs for software engineers, project leads, and engineering managers. => 0%. I don't think directly defining KPIs was the right goal to set. Instead, I coached teams to write down better iteration plans and individuals to provide better progress updates ([examples](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/issues?q=3.18+tracking+issue+is%3Aissue+label%3Atracking+), [better docs](https://github.com/sourcegraph/about/pull/1083/files)). \
      KR: Flaky tests are disabled or fixed within 1 day of being discovered to be flaky.
      1. **Code intel: Increase test coverage and reliability.** \
         KR: Increase test coverage of code intel owned code from 57% to 65%. \
         KR: 1 integration test per supported precise code intel language.
      1. **Web: Pay down tech/design debt.** \
         KR: Each web team member devotes 2d per milestone to work on tech debt issues. \
         KR: The web team devotes 3d per milestone to work on design debt issues.
      1. **Web: Increase test coverage and reliability.** \
         KR: Increase TypeScript test coverage from 34% to 55%. \
         KR: Grow number of Percy snapshots from 8 to 40.
      1. **Distribution: Increase efficiency by increasing developer productivity and managing costs.** \
         KR: Provide adequate customer support with no more than 1 developer-month per month. \
         KR: Fully automate the QA and release process. (#7148, #9814) \
         KR: Eliminate flakiness in CI infrastructure and production alerting (OpsGenie). (e.g.,#9607) \
         KR: Establish clear reporting on utilization of compute resources on sourcegraph.com and internal infrastructure. (#10101)
      1. **Core services: Increase test coverage and reliability.** \
         KR: Increase Go test coverage from 46% to 60%. => Increased to 58.3%. \
         KR: Migrate 95% of e2e tests for backend functionality from browser-based to GraphQL-based. => Have migrated 22% of those.
   1. **People Ops: Make our HR processes truly global and all remote.** \
      KR: Handbook outlines onboarding requirements for specific teams. \
      KR: Handbook outlines employment structure differences for US and international team members. \
      KR: All HR policies are updated to be suitable for an all-remote and geographically distributed team. \
   1. **People Ops: Continue to foster connections and belonging.** \
      KR: Increase team participation by having 100% of team join at least 1 activity per month. \
   1. **People Ops: Build a consistent hiring process that supports scaling a team.** \
      KR: Interview repo contains guidelines and FAQs on ATS for varying access roles (referrers, interviewers, HMs, coordinators). \
      KR: 100% of applicants get a response (rejected or continuing to next stage) within 7 days (no accidental "ghosting").
   1. **Sales: Effective team onboarding to sales productivity (pipeline and revenue generation)** \
      KR: Handbook to contain detailed tasks and expectations for each new Sales role for the first 2 weeks. \
      KR: Handbook Sales section is up to date and documents processes and definitions.

[n0]: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1fAB7HMD7rmcyI68f2WuMAvt3uf0UqIruFvKhJUHMCyY/edit#bookmark=id.k2i8a693nt03
[n1]: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1fAB7HMD7rmcyI68f2WuMAvt3uf0UqIruFvKhJUHMCyY/edit#bookmark=id.rcsa4nrzhfth
[n2]: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1fAB7HMD7rmcyI68f2WuMAvt3uf0UqIruFvKhJUHMCyY/edit#bookmark=id.78lfgk6n8g1
[n3]: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1fAB7HMD7rmcyI68f2WuMAvt3uf0UqIruFvKhJUHMCyY/edit#bookmark=id.cflce5c26p0t
[n4]: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1fAB7HMD7rmcyI68f2WuMAvt3uf0UqIruFvKhJUHMCyY/edit#bookmark=id.kyb6vf54kq6n
[n5]: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1fAB7HMD7rmcyI68f2WuMAvt3uf0UqIruFvKhJUHMCyY/edit#bookmark=id.zfd4s7f6l96
[n6]: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1fAB7HMD7rmcyI68f2WuMAvt3uf0UqIruFvKhJUHMCyY/edit#bookmark=id.el36web1a8lh
[n7]: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1fAB7HMD7rmcyI68f2WuMAvt3uf0UqIruFvKhJUHMCyY/edit#bookmark=id.kwvjy8a59zqq
[n8]: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1fAB7HMD7rmcyI68f2WuMAvt3uf0UqIruFvKhJUHMCyY/edit#bookmark=id.tb34mxx6cpdw
[n9]: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1fAB7HMD7rmcyI68f2WuMAvt3uf0UqIruFvKhJUHMCyY/edit#bookmark=id.s15cevsvq3r0
[n10]: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1fAB7HMD7rmcyI68f2WuMAvt3uf0UqIruFvKhJUHMCyY/edit#bookmark=id.9znxsajwsep5
[n11]: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1fAB7HMD7rmcyI68f2WuMAvt3uf0UqIruFvKhJUHMCyY/edit#bookmark=id.mcssqvtg6g9u
[n12]: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1fAB7HMD7rmcyI68f2WuMAvt3uf0UqIruFvKhJUHMCyY/edit#bookmark=id.60b1ec8o51kl
[n13]: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1fAB7HMD7rmcyI68f2WuMAvt3uf0UqIruFvKhJUHMCyY/edit#bookmark=id.byvw6hihxyze
